####### Minutes #######

A. Dataset description
(Source https://docs.fastf1.dev/#)

FastF1 give access to F1 lap timing, car telemetry and position, tire data, weather data, the event schedule and session results.

B. Feature description

Below is an overview of the available data.

Event Schedule:
event names, countries, locations, dates, scheduled starting times,… (previous and current season including upcoming events)

Results:
driver names, team names, finishing and grid positions, points, finishing status

Timing Data:
sector times, lap times, pit stops, tire data and much more

Track Status:
flags, safety car

Session Status:
started, finished, finalized

Race Control Messages:
investigations, penalties, restart announcements

Telemetry:
speed, rpm, gear, normalized track position

Track Markers:
corner numbers, marshal sectors, marshal lights

GOAL:
Develop a dashboard for F1 decision-makers to assess racing-conditions in real-time and make strategic decisions regarding their drivers, in order to maximize their finishing position.

COMPONENTS:
- Ingestion Pipeline
- Algorithms & Analytics
- Dashboard

C. What questions should the dashboard answer.

1. Create driver styles profiles, and relate those to telemetry data for steering inputs in drivers.
2. Estimate current tire integrity and fastest expected lap time for a given circuit, based on tire telemetry.
3. Assess the exploitability of a drivers slipstream through probabilistic or other methods, to determine "overtakability"
4.

"
1. Predicting a car crash in the next 5 laps.
2. Predicting positions in n next laps.
3. Predicting lap times, positions
4. Profile driver's driving style
5. Profile races
"

"Graining is a type of tire degradation that occurs when the tire surface starts to lose grip due to uneven wear. It happens when the rubber on the surface of the tire begins to tear off in small particles or fragments, creating a rough, abrasive texture on the tire's contact patch. This phenomenon is caused by shear forces (from the friction between the tire and the track) that act on the tire's surface, particularly in corners and during high load conditions."

Pickup -
"The accumulation of rubber debris on the tire surface, from other cars as a result of the graining of other cars."

GPT suggestions:

Summary of Key Indicators for Detecting Graining:
Tire Temperature: Irregularities or rapid temperature drops, especially on the outer parts of the tire.
Longitudinal/Lateral G-forces: A sudden reduction in G-forces in corners or on straights, suggesting grip loss.
Tire Wear Data: If available, monitor the rate of degradation or excessive wear.
Throttle Position and Steering Angle: Any significant changes in driving behavior due to reduced grip.
Lap/Sector Times: Decrease in performance, particularly in high-stress corners.
Tire Pressure: Irregularities in pressure that can cause or indicate graining.
Brake Data: Changes in braking behavior, especially if tires are losing grip.


Maintainer contact:
oehrly@mailbox.org


